---
title: "Standing on the shoulders of (messy) giants"
category: "Unit 02"
layout: single
sidebar:
  nav: docs
tags: "Unit|02"
---

Building things from scratch is time consuming, error prone and - thanks to many people distributing their work with open licenses - generally not necessary. [Open science](https://os.helmholtz.de/) is not just a public relation term but strives for a community which works together on a subject and openly shares data, methods and results.

While you have left to your well deserved holiday, someone already typed some R code which handles the download of MODIS products for your study area and computes Mann-Kendall trends. However, things have become quite messy and it is time to wrap things up before digging any further.


## Organize data analysis projects

There is one easy and one difficult decision when it comes to the organization of your analysis scripts:
* Easy: Use version management software like [Git](https://git-scm.com/). Period.
* Difficult: How to structure things so others could build on my work?

One solution would be to put everything which is reusable to some degree into one or more dedicated libraries (e.g. one for climate data processing, another for remote sensing images). In terms of R this would be packages. The actual analysis script which is tailored to your problem can then go into a separate repository. For now, we will use a little modified version of this approach.

* We will put all general functions (i.e. those which are likely to be reused sooner or later) into a single R package called [beechForestDynamics](https://github.com/marburg-open-courseware/beechForestDynamics){:target="_blank"}.
* We will put all tailored analysis scripts into a second R project (not package!) called [project_beech_dynamics](https://github.com/marburg-open-courseware/project_beech_dynamics){:target="_blank"}.

Depending on what will happen later, we can sort something out more sophisticated.



## Creating R packages

While you should be familiar in using Git (otherwise have a look at the [prerequisites]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link index.md %}#preparation-and-prerequisites)), you might not have created an R package from scratch. Therefore, have a look at the following links to make yourself familiar with some basic principles of R packages before you move on:

* [R packages by Hadley Wickham](http://r-pkgs.had.co.nz/tests.html){:target="_blank"}
* [Package development with R studio](https://support.rstudio.com/hc/en-us/sections/200130627-Package-Development){:target="_blank"}